Add guide for partial payment (#700)
centrapay/centrapay-docs: src/content/guides/partial-payment-extension.mdx

---
title: Partial Payment
description: An extension to the Payment Request Protocol allowing merchant integrators to accept a partial amount of a transaction through Centrapay.
nav:
  path: Reference/Merchant Integrations
  order: 8
---

Partial Payment is an extension to the Payment Request Protocol that allows

> customers to pay a partial amount of a payment request using Centrapay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
customers to pay a portion of a payment request using Centrapay.
```

> However, the customer is responsible for ensuring payment of the remaining amount.

Reviewer: What are we trying to say here? I don't think that the meaning is coming accros very well

		Patron->>POS: Make external payment
	end
	note over POS: Display Confirmation
```

### Create Payment Request

When [creating a Payment Request](https://docs.centrapay.com/api/payment-requests#create-a-payment-request)
you can opt into partial payment by following these steps:

- Set partialAllowed to true.
- Set value.amount to the amount payable via Centrapay.
- Set basketAmount to the total amount of the transaction, including external
forms of payment (e.g., cash or card). This value should be equal to value.amount
if the customer is completing their entire transaction using Centrapay.

If the customer has paid by another method or indicates they would like to pay
only a partial amount of the transaction with Centrapay, then value.amount
should be less than the basketAmount.

If you are integrating with the [Line Items payment extension](/guides/line-items),
the total amount of line items must sum to either the `basketAmount` or the
`value.amount`.

### Get Payment Request

Integrators should continue to poll [get Payment Request](https://docs.centrapay.com/api/payment-requests#get-a-payment-request)
until the status is no longer `new`. If the Payment Request status has been

> updated to `cancelled` or `expired`, proceed as you normally would. If the status

Reviewer: `proceed as you normally would` is a bit weird we have some information here https://docs.centrapay.com/guides/requesting-payment/ which we could lean on.
